ENCORE! — English rulebook transcription

Source: encore-official-rules-en.pdf (Schmidt Spiele, six pages).
Text preserves the rulebook wording, including original grammatical errors.
Dice faces: ⚀ ⚁ ⚂ ⚃ ⚄ = 1–5. Color symbols: 🟦 blue, 🟨 yellow,
🟧 orange, 🟩 green, 🟪 pink (the original uses a pink cross).
Joker symbols: ? = number Joker, ✖ = black color Joker; ! = exclamation mark.
Color squares stand for the colored crosses printed on the dice in the PDF.
Board illustrations remain in the PDF; this file includes their printed
captions and text descriptions of inline dice and the color-bonus example.
Stray page-edge text and printed page numbers have been removed.

=== PAGE 1 ===

8+         1–6       20 min

CONTENTS
3 Color dice
The ingenious dice game                  3 Number dice
by Inka & Markus Brand                  1 Scoring Pad
for 1-6 players, ages 8+.               6 Pens
GAME OVERVIEW
Players earn points by being the first to check off all boxes in a column, and all boxes of
the same color. Players pick a combination of a Color die and a Number die, and check the
respective boxes. Only boxes connected to other boxes can be checked.
Make sure to complete columns before other players do! The first to complete a column earns
more points than those who complete them later. In addition to points for completed columns,
a player can receive a bonus if they checked all the boxes of the same color. The game is
over when one player has checked off all boxes of two colors, but you could have an Encore!
by playing once more!

PREPARATION
Give each player one Player Sheet from the Scoring Pad and Pen.

PLAYER SHEET
Columns A-O                      Start Column H

Starred Boxes
Negative points
if unchecked at
game end.

Victory Points
For the 1st player
to complete a
column.

Victory Points
For subsequent
players who
complete a                                                  Overview for game end
Remaining Jokers
column                                                      scoring.

=== PAGE 2 ===

GAME PLAY
Determine a starting player. This is the first active player, who will throw all six dice once.
The active player then chooses one Color die and one Number die, which they place in
front of them. They check off the relevant boxes on their Player Sheet (see below). All other
players may now choose any combination (one Color die and one Number die) from the
remaining four dice and check off the appropriate boxes on their Player Sheet. The only dice
“removed” are those selected by the active player.

EXCEPTION: For the first three turns (the first three active players), all players may
choose a combination of one Number die and one Color die from all six of the thrown
dice. The active player does NOT remove any dice to be placed in front of them. Players may
choose the same combinations.

PASSING: A player may always choose not to use any combination, and therefore check off
nothing. This also applies to the active player. If the active player chooses to take no
dice, the other players may choose a combination from all of the six dice.
SELECT A COMBINATION AND CHECK A BOX
To check off boxes, a player must select a combination of dice, one Number die and
one Color die, then check off the appropriate number of adjacent colored boxes. For
instance, if a player selected a Number die with a four, and a yellow Color die, they
must check off four adjacent yellow boxes.
THE FOLLOWING RULES APPLY:

At the beginning of the game, the first checked box must be in Column H. However,
checks made during that turn can spread into other columns.

All checked boxes must connect, and all must be of the same chosen color.

Checks must be horizontally or vertically adjacent to at least one already checked box, or
start in the Column H. Boxes that touch only diagonally do not count as adjacent.

You must check the exact number of boxes indicated by the die.

All checks made in a turn must connect to each other, in one “clump”.

A color block of several boxes need not be filled completely in a turn.

You can never check more than five boxes in one turn. A Joker cannot be a “6”.

On a turn, the value of a die may not be split up in order to tick boxes in two separate
color blocks of the same color.

The ? number on the Number dice and the black ✖ on the Color dice are Jokers (see
JOKER).

=== PAGE 3 ===

EXAMPLE:
For the first turn of the of the game, David rolls ⚁ ⚄ ⚄ 🟦 🟨 🟧. One choice (A) is to
choose ⚄ 🟨 and check off five yellow boxes, which he can do because at least one of the
checked boxes is in Column H. He could have also chosen ⚁ 🟨, but that would be an odd
choice.
Another choice (B) could have been ⚁ 🟧. He would have checked off the entire 2-orange
color block, which he can do because it is at least partially in Column H. ⚄ 🟧 could not be
chosen, for there is no space along Column H to check off 5 orange boxes.
Yet another option (C) would be to choose ⚁ 🟦 and check off two of the blue boxes in the 4-blue color block. He
can do this because
one of the boxes was
in the Column H, and
both checks made
were connected.
Checking off all 4 blue
boxes would not have
been possible if the
⚄ was chosen, because
the entire value must
be used.

NOTE: If David chose Option C, in order to complete the 4-blue color block, he would later
need to choose ⚁ 🟦 again, or ⚀ 🟦 in two separate turns.
EXAMPLES OF CORRECT AND INCORRECT MOVES:

CORRECT ⚃ 🟩
All four checked off boxes are connected to each other, and at least
one green box is adjacent to the already checked yellow box.

CORRECT ⚃ 🟩
All 4 checked off boxes connect to each other. However, two green
fields (checked with blue) have now emerged, each of which can only
be ticked with a “1”. A green “2” cannot be used for this.

=== PAGE 4 ===

INCORRECT ⚄ 🟪
The 5 checked off boxes are not connected.

INCORRECT ⚂ 🟩
One of the 3 checked off boxes must be adjacent to an already checked
off box. They cannot connect diagonally.

JOKER
The ? Number and the ✖ Color dice are Jokers. If a player chooses the ✖ symbol, they
can choose any color. If they choose the ? symbol, they can specify a number between one
and five.
ATTENTION: You may not choose six even if you wish to fill in a block of 6 boxes as
five is the maximum Number die. 6 block boxes always require two turns at least.
IMPORTANT: For each Joker which a player uses, they must check off an
exclamation mark on their Player Sheet. If they no longer have any exclamation points,
they can no longer use Jokers. A player can use two Joker dice if they wish. If they do,
however, they must check off two exclamation points. Note that leftover ! at the end of
the game are worth points!

CLAIMING COLUMNS
Whenever a player succeeds in filling a column with checks, they earn the specified points below
that column. If they are the first to do so, they circle the top (higher value) number beneath that
column. That player lets the rest of the players know they should cross out that value. Other players
may still earn points for filling that column, but they will circle the bottom (lower value) number. The
bottom (lower value) number is available to all subsequent players; it is never “claimed” as the first
player to complete that column did the higher value.

EXAMPLE:
After a few throws
Inka has just the
3 blue boxes and fills
a column. She says
aloud to her team-mates: “Column E is
full.” And circles the
2 points. The other
players cross out the
2, they can in Column
E only earn 1 point.

=== PAGE 5 ===

IMPORTANT:
Only the upper value of a column is crossed out. All other players still have the possibility
to earn the lower value.
In one turn, a player may complete multiple columns, and claim multiple points.
If multiple players complete a column on the same turn, all receive the higher points.

After all players have had an opportunity to choose a pair of dice, and check off
the respective boxes, the dice are passed to the next player clockwise, and play
progresses.
COLOR BONUS POINTS
Whenever a player succeeds in checking off all of the areas for one color,
they earn the specified points for that color. If they are the first to do so, they
circle the left (higher value) number for that color. That player lets the rest
of the players know they should cross out that value. Other players may still
earn points for checking off all of the areas for that color, but they will circle
the right (lower value) number. The right (lower value) number is available to
all subsequent players; it is never “claimed” as the first player to complete
that color.

[Illustration: green bonus 5 + blue bonus 3 = 8.]
STARS
Each star on a player’s sheet which has not been checked off by the end of the
game is negative 2 points each, for a maximum of 30 points lost.

GAME END
The game ends immediately after the turn in which (at least) one player succeeds in circling
their second Color Bonus (the value does not matter, either high or low). If the active player is
the one to end the game, all other players still get to end their turn with the remaining four
dice, as usual. Then the points of the individual players are determined. (A player could never
have more than 2 Color Bonuses, but, of course, they may not have any.)

Enter the bonus points of the color fields here.

Enter the bonus points below the columns here.

Each remaining exclamation mark on the Player Sheet earns the player
1 point each.

Each star not checked off on a Player Sheet results in -2 points!

Whoever has the most points wins! In a tie, the player who has more
exclamation points remaining is the winner. Otherwise, if there are several
winners, you can break the tie by playing another game of Encore!

=== PAGE 6 ===

SOLO GAME
If there are no players at hand, you can play ENCORE! on your own. The solo game is about
collecting as many points as possible. The rules of the game remain largely unchanged.
However, the player may play only with 2 Color and 2 Number dice.
After every roll, they have to make a slash in one of the upper letter boxes. In each of these
letter fields will be a total of 2 slashes made. One diagonally to the right and one diagonally
to the left .
EXAMPLE:
Letter fields after 11
turns.

After 30 turns, the solo game ends. Add together your points and check the table below to
see how well you did!
POINTS            LEVEL
> 40                     So there are super heroes!

37-40                     Do your friends call you The Brain?

33-36                     You could be a professional ENCORE! player!

29-32                     Excellent! A great result!

25-28                     Hopefully done without cheating.

21-24                     That went well.

17-20                     That was probably not your first time.

13-16                     Ok, but I bet you do better on your next try.

9-12                     Was that your first try?

5-8                      Not very good at all.

1-4                     Maybe there‘s something else you could practice?

0                      Checkers. Do you like checkers?

<0                      You should be shamed. We will be alerting your friends.

Author: Inka & Markus Brand                Schmidt Spiele GmbH
Layout: Leon Schiffer                     Lahnstr. 21
Editor: Thorsten Gimmler                   D-12055 Berlin
Realization: Matthias Karl
www.schmidtspiele.de
www.schmidtspiele-shop.de
